---
layout: post
title: "My setup on OS&nbsp;X El&nbsp;Capitan"
category: tech
tags: ['os&nbsp;x', 'el&nbsp;capitan', 'nginx', 'dnsmasq', 'python', 'rbuy', 'rbenv', 'pyenv', 'jekyll', 'gollum', 'git', 'launchctl', 'homebrew', 'brew', 'services']
comments: true
image:
  feature: os-x-el-capitan.jpeg
  thumb: os-x-el-capitan-thumb.jpg
  credit: Apple
  creditlink: http://www.apple.com/osx/elcapitan-preview/
---

A detailed walkthrough through that I try to keep as consistent as possible over all my OS&nbsp;X El&nbsp;Capitan machines.

# Introduction

First of all, I'm going to keep this article up to date as long as OS X 10.11 El Capitan is current. I might split off a few articles (i.e. how I set up nginx, dnsmasq, etc.) to their separate little posts, as this most likely won't change too much and this post might quickly become cluttered during the new semester. I'll be dipping into some IoT development this year, as well as some wearables (mainly Apple Watch, when we can finally order some for the institute), so I'll be using a few tools and languages to get my ideas out of my head.

First up is setting up my blogging and personal wiki system, which consists the following stack:

* `dnsmasq` so I can have a local `.wip`-domain [☟](#dnsmasq)
* `nginx` as a webserver [☟](#nginx)
* `ruby` & `rbenv` [☟](#ruby--rbenv)
* `python` & `pyenv` [☟](#python--pyenv)
* `gollum` as my personal wiki [☟](#gollum)
* `jekyll` to write this blog [☟](#jekyll)

As a [first step](#housekeeping): We'll also need to take care of a few tools before we can go about installing all this---namely `homebrew` and `git`---and do some housekeeping like making the nasty config-file warnings generated by using `brew` and `pyenv`/`rbenv` on the same machine. I have also moved the installatin of a few of my favourite tools to `brew cask`. Why you ask? Simply because it simplifies maintaining a consistent toolset over a few machines.

# Housekeeping

First up, we need to get Homebrew installed on our machine. This you can simply do by pasting the following into your terminal.

{% highlight bash %}
ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
{% endhighlight %}

For more installation options or information, go visit Hombrew's [page](http://brew.sh) or read their [documentation](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew/tree/master/share/doc/homebrew#readme). They have a quite nice and short collection on common issues and pitfalls with [Homebrew and Python](https://github.com/Homebrew/homebrew/blob/master/share/doc/homebrew/Homebrew-and-Python.md) which you should defenitely read.



# dnsmasq

asdf

# nginx

asdf

# ruby & rbenv

asdf

# python & pyenv

asdf

# gollum

asdf

# jekyll

asdf

